	Computer engineering is a field that embraces the science and technology of design, development, and maintenance of software and hardware elements of computer-controlled devices. Students are taught with the theories and principles of mathematics and science to be applied in solving technical problems pertaining to hardware and software. Computer engineering focuses on digital hardware and the software that controls it. The software is a program that enables a computer to execute certain instructions, as acted by the hardware components. Hardware is valued equally as software in computer engineering. New design in computer hardware can create rapid advancement in computer technology. Knowledge in hardware and software are essential in the design, development, and testing of computer systems and components. 

	In computer engineering, students must be knowledgeable in troubleshooting as it is one of the jobs of a computer engineer. Troubleshooting is a systematic method of problem-solving basically used in finding and correcting issues. The first step of troubleshooting is gathering data regarding the issues such as symptoms and circumstances that may lead to the issue. Second is the elimination of unnecessary components and check if the issue still persists. If the problem is identified, the troubleshooter may now repair, adjust or replace certain parts and functions of the system. Effective troubleshooting is evident if the issue is already non-existent and functions are restored. Success in troubleshooting depends on the knowledge and experience of the troubleshooter as well as thoroughness in finding and correcting the issue.

	In our troubleshooting class, we did reports on the different issues and troubleshooting of microprocessor, motherboard, RAM, hard disk drive, keyboard, mouse, monitor, Network Interface Card (NIC), Small Computers System Interface (SCSI), Power Supply Unit (PSU), expansion cards, video cards, router, modem, printer, and scanner.

	Reporting is a nice idea, as reporters will have to really work on the report for them to give relevant and new information on the issues and troubleshooting assigned to them. Also, the students are given the chance to impart their knowledge to their co-computer engineering students and to their instructor as well. This reporting is a way of reinforcing one's students’ self-esteem.

	We did troubleshoot the computer unit, and we have observed that when turned on, fans are running but just for a few seconds. Motherboard LEDs light up but can't boot up. Components are covered with dust. Also, we found one bloated capacitor. The problem is the fuse in the power supply is blown. What we did to find all of these is checked the power connections of the power supply and the connections from the power supply to the motherboard. What we can suggest is try changing the power supply or changing the fuse. But, the fuse is mounted directly to the board, so it would be difficult to replace it. We also did troubleshoot the raspberry pi and we found out that is functional and an OS is installed in it. Cables are in good condition and are also functional. What we can suggest ensuring the raspberry pi working is ensuring power source, raspberry pi will run without any errors. Attaching cables needed for other external devices properly will make it functional. 
As for the quizzes, the items of the test was mainly on the report which is an advantage for us since most of us studied the handouts that were given by the reporters.

	For our instructor, it is a good thing that he continued what we have started in our class. At least the efforts of the students who reported before changes were made in the subject were not wasted. I understand that he is still coping with his teaching job and that teaching us is quite an adjustment when you came from being a student. There is a big difference between teaching and being a student. In teaching, you have to impart your knowledge to your students. It not an easy job and you have to be careful of your words, of what you are teaching to your students as this might be used against you if you take teaching for granted. I appreciate all the efforts that he invested in us and in our subject. Without him to take over what was left by our previous instructor, we won’t have to move on with our course.

	For the subject, I’ve learned from all the reports and from the activity that we did in our class. Maybe I was just expecting more of the hands-on activities like individually or by a partner or even by three’s. I think assigning half the class to troubleshoot one unit or device is not quite effective since many hands will be involved in the activity but the resources are minimal. I mean, the real scenario would be approximately only two to three students will be given the chance to really do the troubleshooting and the others will just have to watch them do their work. Considering the amount of time that we have in our class per day, it is not enough for all of us to have a chance to troubleshoot. Observing is totally different from doing it hands-on. You learn a lot if you do it yourself. Not just in theories. Not just by reading our notes. Bisuans are known to do the actual work. I guess what I’m trying to say is, more time should be given on hands-on activities as it is where students can learn more. 
